{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19880\viewh12620\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Overview\
BreakAlign is a Perl program downloadable from
\fs28  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/marchiem/Breakalign"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 https://github.com/marchiem/Breakalign}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3  
\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 along with a tutorial folder containing everything necessary for a basic run (the command line example below uses that in the tutorial). The program outputs chimaeric sequences aligned to the host genome sequence in what has become a standard format.\
\
Sample command line\
> perl breakalign.pl \'97f chr19_29855576_29856018.fa \'97r NGSreads.fa \'97vr LTR.fa\
\
Prior to execution the following key steps are required (detailed below and in the tutorial).\
1. BreakAlign will check for a system blastn installation since this dependency is a strict prerequisite for the software to run; if not found, the user is warned and can provide a directory path where a local version of blastn is downloaded using either the -bp switch and writing the blastn directory path in input (if the version of blastn predates 2.2.31+ check Options below).\
\
2. FASTA files of the viral LTR sequence and the NGS read file need to be indicated by the \'97vr and \'97r switches respectively.\
\
3. Finally, BreakAlign requires either a approximately 500nt human genomic sequence in FASTA format that spans the putative integration site or a coordinate of such a sequence within the reference human genome sequence. In the sample command line above, the \'97f switch directs the program to the former. To use the latter, see Options below.\
\
\
\
Options\
\
Genome coordinates. BreakAlign can retrieve automatically a reference sequence spanning a putative integration site from an installed copy of the reference human genome. This genome must be downloaded from either the UCSC website (http://hgdownload.soe.ucsc.edu/goldenPath/hg19/chromosomes/) or from the NCBI \'96NIH genomes FTP site (ftp://ftp.ncbi.nih.gov/genomes). The downloads will contain chromosomes as individual FASTA file within in a single folder (chr1.fa, chr2.fa, etc). To use this option the following are required.\
1. The Bioperl module SeqIO must be installed.\
2. Indicate the directory path where the host reference genome sequence is stored using the \'97fr switch (/path/to/reference_folder/).\
3. A coordinate range as a string in \'91chrN:start-end\'92 format must be provided using the \'97c switch (e.g. chr16:89577447-89578013).\
4. Do not use the \'97f switch, which overrides this option.\
\
Alternatively, breakalign can run using a reference file (option -f), overriding in this case the automatic generation, if region coordinates are given as input (option \'96c).}